h3. The Voice of the Silence

The Voice of the Silence is the last published work to come from the pen of  H.P. Blavatsky, described by herself as being derived from “The Book of the Golden Precepts” a mystical Eastern text. The Voice of the Silence takes the form of an exquisite prose poem and is a profoundly spiritual work. It is described by Annie Besant “a prose poem, full of spiritual inspiration, full of food for the heart, stimulating the loftiest virtue and containing the noblest ideals.” She goes on to add that "It moves us not by a statement of facts gathered from books, but by an appeal to the divinest instincts of our nature”. In the course you will be introduced to the work and guided through several parts of the text. 

==
h3. Life of H.P. Blavatsky

Helena Petrovna Blavatsky is a remarkable figure in the history of Western spiritual thought, her extraordinary life continues to this day, to radiate influence in relation to attitudes of philosophy, spirituality and science. Often referred to as HPB, she is more than any other single person, responsible for the introduction of Eastern religious and spiritual thinking to the West. We are most probably familiar with practices such as yoga, meditation and mindfulness even familiar with ideas such as the interconnectedness of all things. However, do we realise that all of these thoughts and practices have their roots in the East? 
Born July 1831 in southern Russia, HPB was un-conventional from the start. In this part of the course we will learn more about her life, her work and writings and the legacy she left in opening up the doors of Western thinking to the profound teachings of the East. 
==
h3. Concentration (Dhårana) & its practice 

Dharana is a Sanskrit term that describes a state in traditional Yoga practice when the mind has to be fixed unflinchingly on an object of meditation - concentration.  This important skill can also help us in todays fast paced world as without concentration we can reason that it is almost impossible to achieve anything. The Tibetan understanding of concentration goes beyond the ability to pay attention, rather its aim is to eliminate all obstacles and to come into contact with the essence of an object or idea. Concentration practiced in this way can become a key to inspiration and understanding because by making contact with the essence of something we can truly understand its meaning. In this part of the course we will study the nature of mind in relation to concentration and we will introduce some practical exercises which can help to improve our concentration. 
